[Music]
everybody knows that the connection
between a mother and daughter is secret
and unique but what about the father
specialists are sure that a girl's bond
with her father or the lack of it can
determine her future behavior love life
and even success but let's talk about
one thing at a time starting with number
one special a relationship a couple of
decades ago it was pretty hard to
imagine a father taking a major part in
his children's upbringing it was
considered a woman's responsibility as
the man was too busy providing his
family with stable living conditions
thankfully the culture has finally
changed opening new doors for the
father-daughter bond these days a lot of
fathers take care of their daughters
right from the start feeding them
changing their diapers and calming them
down when they cry it's safe to say that
our generation got away bigger dose of
fatherly love and affection than those
who came before us and you won't believe
in how many ways this change has shaped
us number two emotional health it may
seem kind of strange but spending
quality time with your father as a child
and as an adult can change your
emotional state for the better research
conducted by dr. linda nielsen showed
that if a daughter has a good
relationship with her father she has a
lower risk of developing anxiety and
depression
moreover girls who have a tight
emotional bond with their dads deal with
stress way better than girls who do not
have a secure and loving relationship
with their fathers unfortunately that's
not all according to a study in the
Journal of the American Academy of Child
and Adolescent Psychiatry the
father-daughter relationship is one of
the main factors correlated with eating
disorders in this situation it's crucial
to talk with a good psychologist who
helps you find the core of the problem
and let it go
[Music]
number three self-image and confidence
when it comes to healthy self-esteem and
knowing your worth your relationship
with your father plays a huge role in
developing your self-confidence and
creating a positive self-image when you
go from your childhood years to teenage
confusion and then to adulthood your
father as one of the two most important
people in your life is your safety net
the way he communicates with you slowly
but steadily shapes your vision of
yourself and your abilities if your
father is present in your life respects
your feelings and creates an atmosphere
of trust and honesty
you'll probably be completely secure
with yourself in your adult life but if
he simply doesn't care or even worse
keeps saying that what you're doing is
not enough your insecurities will grow
causing your self-esteem to plummet to
the ground not cool number four romantic
relationship when you're a toddler you
have two main examples in front of you
your mother symbolizes a perfect woman
and your father signifies a perfect man
that's why a father's influence on a
daughter's future romantic relationships
is probably the biggest factor of them
all dr. Jennifer cranberries that a
father sets the first-ever model of how
a relationship with a man should be his
behavior shows a young girl what respect
and love really mean and as small
children are very perceptive a daughter
subconsciously remembers everything
about her father's communication with
her mother and other women studies
confirm this pattern - research
published in marriage and family review
discovered that mature women date and
have long-term relationships with men
who mentally resemble their fathers the
absence of a father figure from a very
young age or his abusive behavior can
really affect the way a woman connects
with men in adulthood
number five career and success on first
glance it seems like there's no
correlation between a father/daughter
relationship and career achievements but
numerous studies show otherwise an
article called father/daughter
relationships and family interactions
stated that young women with fathers who
actively promoted their intellectual
achievements are way more successful
academically than daughters who didn't
really have a prominent father figure a
study in the book fathering and child
outcomes involving around 13,000
children discovered that a daughter's
academic success is more closely related
to her connection with her father than
her mother of course there are endless
examples of strong independent and
successful women coming from difficult
family backgrounds still a healthy
father-daughter bond can make a real
difference even in the most surprising
areas of your life though fathers
obviously play a significant role in
their girls lives let's not forget how
important it is for every girl to have a
prominent and loving mother figure dr.
Christine Northrup author of
mother-daughter wisdom confirms that a
mother's bond with her daughter sets the
stage for all her following
relationships and behavior patterns
there's no way that one parent can be
more valuable and important than the
other they both need to give their full
love attention and care to their child
to make sure they grow up to be secure
content in themselves and happy
[Music]
both fathers and mothers often ask
themselves one important question how
can they raise a confident and fearless
girl and psychologists give a lot of
priceless advice dr. Karen Ruskin author
of the nine key techniques for raising
respectful children who make responsible
choices believes that it's better to
compliment your daughter's mind rather
than her appearance so instead of saying
your dress is so pretty let her know
that you love the way she put her outfit
together this will teach your young girl
to put an emphasis on the beauty of her
mind and personality rather than
worrying about her looks all the time
Serah Ruddle of the Canadian Women's
Foundation says that being a good
listener and providing your daughter
with a healthy dose of validation can
also help whether your daughter is a
toddler or a teenager she needs to be
heard and feel like her emotions matter
it's better to let your daughter express
all her feelings and emotions without
judging or interrupting and make her see
the positive side of things after she
tells her story this approach will not
only strengthen your bond but make your
girl grow up to be a person who's not
afraid to speak her mind show her
emotions and be vulnerable another
crucial thing is to encourage your
daughter to think outside the box don't
teach her to accept information as it is
teach her to think it through analyze it
and form her own opinion on the matter
if you do this your little girl will
blossom into a smart lady who doesn't
consume what the media and society are
telling her right away but asks
questions and makes up her own mind
sounds pretty good right the most
important thing you can do for your
daughter is be the best version of
yourself remember how I told you that
when we grow up we view our parents as
perfect role models no matter how much
you try to do everything by the book
if you're unhappy broken and insecure
yourself your child will subconsciously
pick up this behavior and attitude from
you so be sure to improve yourself every
single day and find your own harmony and
happiness then your daughter will be
just as content fierce smart and
confident as you are
what's the most important thing your
parents taught you tell us in the
comment section below don't forget to
give this video a like share it with
your friends and click Subscribe stay on
the bright side
[Music]
[Applause]